Introduce WIT-SVID Token Document (#361)
spiffe/spiffe: standards/WIT-SVID.md

>
> The current stable version of this document can be found at https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Workload_Endpoint.md

## Status of this Memo

This document specifies an identity document standard for the internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements. Distribution of this document is unlimited.

## Table of Contents

## 1. Introduction

The Workload Identity Token (WIT) is a token format specified by the IETF WIMSE working group in the [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document. The WIT binds a public key to the identity of a workload.

The WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of this token format for use in SPIFFE contexts. This document will not redefine key elements specified within the upstream [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document and as such the reader should be familiar with this document and its contents before implementing WIT-SVID.

WIT-SVIDs are JSON Web Signature (JWS) data structures.

### 2. JOSE Header

In addition to headers made mandatory by the upstream document, the WIT-SVID profile makes mandatory the following headers:

- Key ID - `kid`

> TODO: Should we summarize `alg`/`typ` even if these will not differ from the WIMSE WIT?

Author: ?

Reviewer: What do you mean?

Reviewer: OK, I see your point now. IMHO, let's defer to the WIT spec for the `typ` (one sentence really) but I think we should align the `alg` with the current JWT-SVID doc.

Reviewer 2: For JWT-SVID there was some care taken to make sure that the algorithm specified here are well supported across different language ecosystems. I think the situation with libraries is better now so it may be possible to support more, but I'd still be leaning towards specifying same algorithms as the JWT-SVID to aid interoperability.

Reviewer: FWIW, I have been checking this recently and I think we can only really add the method with Curve25519 to the existing selection.

Reviewer 3: +1 on aligning with JWT-SVID algorithms.

Author: [0751ff5](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/pull/361/commits/0751ff5f7e095ab5ca39338e1a0d89e64bbb682f)

### 2.1. Key ID - `kid`

The `kid` header is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this header is mandatory. This differs from the upstream WIT itself where this header is optional.

The precise structure of this header is unspecified, and, it MUST be treated by verifiers as a case-sensitive string.

The issuer MUST ensure that the value set within the `kid` header is unique to each issuing key-pair.

### 2.2. Additional Headers

It is permitted for an implementation to include additional headers not specified in this document or the upstream document.

### 3. Claims

The WIT-SVID specification does not introduce any claims beyond those defined by the upstream document. However, it does set additional restrictions on some claims.

TODO:

> - `iss` claim. This is RECOMMENDED in the WIT specification. Do we wish to mirror this, or, make it mandatory?

Author: Should we extend the `iss` claim? In the WIT spec, it is recommended - but not required. We can already determine the trust domain from the sub, curious what people think here? In the JWT-SVID, we do often see this being used with a URL that hosts a OIDC well-known for the trust domain - but this won't be a concern with WIT.

Reviewer 4: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/124/materials/slides-124-wimse-wimse-key-distribution-discovery-not-on-agenda-00 touches on this.  This was presented at the [IETF WIMSE session](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/124/session/wimse/)

Author: One concern I discussed with Arndt last night is the risk an `iss` field introduces in terms of providing an alternative route to the trust bundle. Within the realm of SPIFFE, we already have an established mechanism for obtaining the trust bundle - and providing another route raises questions around which should be preferred, and, what to do if they provide conflicting results.

Reviewer: Correct, that's problematic. However, could we require that, if it is present, then it must point to the same trust bundle that would be served by the SPIFFE mechanisms? We could also drop the RECOMMENDED to MAY and stress the caveat?

Reviewer 2: I find the draft language a bit weak on this topic. It does says RECOMMENDED, but does not provide a way to use the claim. It then goes on to say it MAY be used to point to something like a `jwks_uri`, so softening the language a bit from RECOMMENDED.

Having the trust bundle URL in there makes some sense to me, but I worry that there might not always be exactly one such url. For example if you federate between companies (I don't know if anyone actually does this, but it could be done) external clients may use a different URL to fetch the bundle than internal clients. Or you might not have a bundle endpoint if you're not using federation at all.

Reviewer 3: @sorindumitru the thinking behind this is that `iss` claim is not just for key discovery. So while it is recommended to put it there for multiple reasons it may be used for key discovery as one of them. For instance, if your trust domain consists of multiple issuers, you may identify the specific one using the `iss` claim. 

---

> However, could we require that, if it is present, then it must point to the same trust bundle that would be served by the SPIFFE mechanisms?

@yoctozepto does that mean a client needs to fetch both and fail if they differ? Or is one enough? The problem I see that the trust established between these 2 options differs significantly:
- using SPIFFE Workload API (based on local configuration, "I trust the local SPIFFE Workload Endpoint")
- using SPIFFE OIDC endpoint (different from SPIFFE bundle endpoint), not at all mention in the SPIFFE standard btw, where trust is based on webPKI.

Reviewer: I was thinking more https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Federation.md#521-web-pki-https_web which is covered in SPIFFE specs already (with WebPKI trust).

One MUST be enough.

I.e., if the implementation sets the `iss`, then it must also serve this like above.

---

I think using the `iss` claim to distinguish between different *actual* issuers in the trust domain is going to hurt the interoperability as it will diverge from its current use in practice.

---

I agree there is an issue though on internal/external URL still. This might mean we need to use the hint from the workload api spec to drive the inclusion of the proper value (or even inclusion of the claim at all).

Reviewer 2: > @sorindumitru the thinking behind this is that `iss` claim is not just for key discovery. So while it is recommended to put it there for multiple reasons it may be used for key discovery as one of them.

I don't think this is ok because it may introduce confusion. A client may decide to fetch the keys from what's in the `iss` claim despite the fact the trust domain didn't intend it to be used in that way. It may end up calling endpoints that are not controlled by the trust domain owner which 

I think the WIMSE spec should better define what this `iss` claim is intended for and it should limit it to a single use. There's not much use for it otherwise.

Reviewer: > I think the WIMSE spec should better define what this `iss` claim is intended for and it should limit it to a single use. There's not much use for it otherwise.

But is it actually required? Since the validator must reject tokens with an unknown scheme, the behaviour could be then scheme-dependent.

Reviewer 3: > I think using the iss claim to distinguish between different actual issuers in the trust domain is going to hurt the interoperability as it will diverge from its current use in practice.

@yoctozepto I agree, I was trying to give an example why the language was chosen like it is.

---

> I.e., if the implementation sets the iss, then it must also serve this like above.

@yoctozepto How would a validator get from `iss` to SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint? 

Also, OIDC-styled JWKS is not directly compatible with the SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint, particularly as OIDC doesn't know about the `use` values of SPIFFE.

Reviewer 2: > But is it actually required? Since the validator must reject tokens with an unknown scheme, the behaviour could be then scheme-dependent.

You still want to be able to interoperate between the different WIMSE schemes (by schemes do you mean different WIMSE protocols?) , so yes I think it's still a problem in general with WIMSE. I think it's dangerous to have a claim that will in some cases point to a place where you can access the keys and it other case can include something else.

I'm also not sure how this would work in general. You get the token, you extract the URL, get the keys and then validate the token? There's not much point to doing that, the token is sort of self-signed in that case.

Reviewer: > > I.e., if the implementation sets the iss, then it must also serve this like above.
> 
> @yoctozepto How would a validator get from `iss` to SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint?

It could be the endpoint's URL itself, but then again it would work differently from the `iss` in OIDC where it points to the discovery endpoint, not JWKS...

> Also, OIDC-styled JWKS is not directly compatible with the SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint, particularly as OIDC doesn't know about the `use` values of SPIFFE.

True that, we want to limit to proper key usages in SPIFFE.

---

We have at least two issues then:

* missing a proper, SPIFFE-native discovery mechanism to ensure compat with OIDC (might it be helpful in general now that we discuss this?)
* not all keys from the bundle are supposed to be used (would be fixed by fixing the previous point)

If we were to introduce an optional SPIFFE discovery mechanism for external parties, we could have either dedicated endpoints per token type or mandate the checks of `use`.

Now, this might also be good to define here and now because of the existing OIDC discovery in SPIRE -- how could/would it securely support WIT-SVIDs?

---

> > But is it actually required? Since the validator must reject tokens with an unknown scheme, the behaviour could be then scheme-dependent.
> 
> You still want to be able to interoperate between the different WIMSE schemes (by schemes do you mean different WIMSE protocols?)

The interoperability between schemes needs to be better defined for sure. By schemes I mean what I think the WIMSE drafts mean - the earliest part of the URI (`spiffe` for us, perhaps `wimse` for the "general scheme").

> so yes I think it's still a problem in general with WIMSE. I think it's dangerous to have a claim that will in some cases point to a place where you can access the keys and it other case can include something else.

Agreed, now I see your point better. This is really subject to the previous point.

> I'm also not sure how this would work in general. You get the token, you extract the URL, get the keys and then validate the token? There's not much point to doing that, the token is sort of self-signed in that case.

This is correct. The validator must know what `iss` values it trusts, similar to how it trusts the mapping between trust domain names (embedded in `sub`) to their trust bundles. Otherwise, it might "overtrust".

Author: To summarise the discussion from SIG-Spec last night:

- We identified an additional risk with this claim, that is, if set to a base URL on which an OIDC discovery document is available, an OIDC validator /could/ parse a WIT-SVID as an ID Token without PoP. That being said, typically the allowed issuers are whitelisted, and, some OIDC validators may additionally check the `typ` header parameter.
- We have consensus that whatever we do, should leave the door open to future specification or improvements around key distribution - and should avoid a MUST NOT for this reason.
- We have consensus that the risk posed by an OIDC validator treating the WIT-SVID as an ID Token is great enough that we should make a SHOULD NOT recommendation against this value being something which is OIDC compatible.

Author: 92312f4

> - `jti` claim. This is OPTIONAL in the WIT specification. Do we wish to mirror this, or, make it mandatory?

Author: Should we extend the `jti` claim? I've seen a number of requests over time for this on the JWT-SVID - but I wonder if it is less valuable as the WIT is not a bearer.

Author: https://github.com/ietf-wg-wimse/draft-ietf-wimse-s2s-protocol/issues/166

Reviewer: @strideynet The reference you made is to WPT which has slightly different concerns than WIT. Specifically, in WPT, it is used as a protection against replays (not used as such with WIT, and, for sake of completion of this overview, handled instead by the nonce in the case of HTTP message signatures approach; WIT is to confirm the signature of either HTTP message or WPT).

During the call, we said that it (jti in WIT) has most value for audits and could perhaps be a revocation mechanism if revocation was ever easy (spoiler for other future readers: it is not).

BTW, maybe resolve this thread as it is now outdated?

Reviewer 3: I believe the question is still valid - should we require `jti` for WIT?

### 3.1. Subject - `sub`

> The `sub` claim MUST be present and set to the SPIFFE ID of the workload to which it is issued. This is the primary claim against which workload identity is asserted.

Reviewer 5: Not sure if this the appropriate framing for a standard, but is it worth highlighting the prospective difference between the SPIFFE scheme vs. the potentially more permissive/larger-scoped WIMSE scheme. Appreciate this isnt finalised yet but this could be a notable point of difference for SPIFFE compliance with a WIT vs. other schemes

Author: As discussed in SIG-Spec, I definitely agree we will need a document (perhaps informational?) that talks about SPIFFE's compat with WIMSE. Lets discuss this in more detail at next SIG-Spec?

For example: `spiffe://example.org/service`.

### 3.2. Additional Claims

It is permitted for an implementation to include additional claims not specified in this document or the upstream document.

> ## 4. Token Signing and Validation

Author: My gut feeling is that this section can effectively just reference the upstream WIT spec.

Reviewer: +1, summarizing the notable bits (i.e., PoP required).

Author: 7a593bb

> [!WARNING]  
> This version of the document belongs to an experimental branch of the SPIFFE standards that explores integration with the WIMSE standards. Contents of this document are subject to breaking change and should not be considered stable.
>
> The current stable version of this document can be found at https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Workload_Endpoint.md

## Status of this Memo

This document specifies an identity document standard for the internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements. Distribution of this document is unlimited.

## Table of Contents

## 1. Introduction

The Workload Identity Token (WIT) is a token format specified by the IETF WIMSE working group in the [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document. The WIT binds a public key to the identity of a workload.

The WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of this token format for use in SPIFFE contexts. This document will not redefine key elements specified within the upstream [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document and as such the reader should be familiar with this document and its contents before implementing WIT-SVID.

> WIT-SVIDs are JSON Web Signature (JWS) data structures.

Reviewer: More than that, they are JWS-encoded JWTs.

(could use linking both the RFCs)

Reviewer 3: +compact-serialized?

Reviewer: Aye, easy to forget there are other, not really used, serialization out there. Thanks.

### 2. JOSE Header

This section describes the JOSE headers that may be included in the WIT-SVID.

The WIT-SVID specification does not introduce any JOSE headers beyond those defined by the upstream document for the WIT. However, it does set additional restrictions and provide SPIFFE-specific guidance on some headers.

TODO: Should we summarize `alg`/`typ` even if these will not differ from the WIMSE WIT?

### 2.1. Key ID - `kid`

The `kid` header is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

> For a WIT-SVID, this header is mandatory. This differs from the upstream WIT itself where this header is optional.

Reviewer: It also differs from JWT-SVID. Why do we diverge? (could explain in text)

Author: 64051d8

> The precise structure of this header is unspecified, and, it MUST be treated by verifiers as a case-sensitive string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The precise structure of this header is unspecified, and it MUST be treated by verifiers as a case-sensitive string.
```

Weird comma?

Author: Good catch, this is unfortunately something I pepper throughout most documents I write - old habits are hard to shake.

Author: a8c14e4

The issuer MUST ensure that the value set within the `kid` header is unique to each issuing key-pair.

### 2.2. Additional Headers

> It is permitted for an implementation to include additional headers not specified in this document or the upstream document.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to allow additional headers or is there a use for them? JWT-SVID doesn't seem to allow for them.

Author: Perhaps a good discussion for SIG-Spec. I defaulted to "permitted" since this is what the upstream document states and I couldn't see an overtly strong argument for being more restrictive here.

Reviewer 3: Most of the headers are for key distribution, where we are opinionated already. Having anything in there will hurt interoperability and client libraries will not know how to process. If someone wants to get fancy they can still decide to deviate from the spec.

Reviewer: Agreed, let's not meddle with header parameters. They define the trust parameters of the signature. SPIFFE decided how it handles it. If we need different, we can always profile (however unlikely).

### 3. Claims

> This section describes the claims that may be included in the WIT-SVID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the claims of WIT-SVID that have a defined meaning.
```

As the previous wording suggests optionality of all of them.

Author: 604297e

The WIT-SVID specification does not introduce any claims beyond those defined by the upstream document for the WIT. However, it does set additional restrictions and provide SPIFFE-specific guidance on some claims.

> TODO:

Reviewer 2: Also the 'exp' and 'cnf' claims.

Reviewer 3: My understanding is that those are defined in WIT upstream and thus, not mentioned here?

Author: I'm starting to feel like it may make sense to include all claims/headers more explicitly within this document, even if the extent of their description is effectively "See the WIMSE doc". On a few read fews, the document felt a little incomplete with them omitted and perhaps harder to use a reference.

Author: 158f51c

- `iss` claim. This is RECOMMENDED in the WIT specification. Do we wish to mirror this, or, make it mandatory?

### 3.1. Subject - `sub`

The `sub` claim MUST be present and set to the SPIFFE ID of the workload to which it is issued. This is the primary claim against which workload identity is asserted.

For example: `spiffe://example.org/service`.

### 3.2. JWT ID - `jti`

The `jti` claim provides a unique identifier for the WIT-SVID. It is defined by [RFC 7519][6].

Primarily, this claim enables distinguishing one or more WIT-SVIDs that contain the same SPIFFE ID for the purposes of auditing. For example, if a validator of a WIT-SVID records the JTI within an audit log event, this audit log event can be correlated with the one emitted by the issuer, allowing the lineage of the credential to be ascertained.

> TODO: Do we repeat from RFC 7519 that the issuer MUST ensure that this field is unique?

Reviewer: "If it is given, it MUST follow the RFC 7519, specifically that it MUST uniquely identify the WIT within the scope of its issuer".

Author: cda35d8

> TODO: In WIT-SVID, is this a MAY/SHOULD/MUST?

Reviewer: IMHO, "MAY contain" is enough.

Author: Agree. Let's run with "MAY" for now and see if any arguments arise for making it more strict.

Author: cda35d8

> TODO: Do we make any comment here on revocation?

Reviewer: That it could be used for this purpose due to its uniqueness property but that this is beyond SPIFFE specs.

Author: 4da162c

### 3.2. Additional Claims

> It is permitted for an implementation to include additional claims not specified in this document or the upstream document.

Reviewer 2: Can we get away with not allowing any additional claims? I don't know if it matters that much, but some of what they are currently used for can be shifted into the WPT (or the other methods used for proof of possession).

Author: We can discuss more at SIG-SPEC, but I think allowing extra claims within WIT is actually very valuable and allows metadata beyond that which can be encoded in the SPIFFE ID to be included in the workload's identity. Whilst this is not usually interoperable outside of a trust domain, I have seen this used in X509/JWT SVIDs within a trust domain plenty of times.

Reviewer 3: > but some of what they are currently used for can be shifted into the WPT.

The question here is whether the peer workload is trusted enough as it is the signing party of the WPT. It may not be enough and a signature from a central authority is required. Considering the high variety of closed environments SPIFFE is deployed in I believe allowing custom claims is ok.

## 4. Token Signing and Validation

## 5. Token Presentation

This section describes the manner in which a WIT-SVID may be presented from one workload to another for the purposes of authentication.

The WIT-SVID MUST always be presented by the workload with proof of possession of the key-pair contained within the `cnf`. In other words, the WIT-SVID MUST NOT be presented as a bearer token.

> WIMSE defines protocols for presentation of the WIT. It is recommended that that an implementor use one of these defined protocols, however, it is not required. At the time of writing, there are two protocols:

Reviewer: But it must be a reliable and compatible PoP mechanism. I don't think we can easily say that "it is not required". Perhaps a different wording could be used. Not sure for now.

Author: Agree - I'll see if I can find some nicer wording for the same sentiment.

Author: e6262e8

- [WIMSE Workload Proof Token][4]
- [WIMSE Workload-To-Workload Authentication with HTTP Signatures][5]

## 6. Representation in the SPIFFE Bundle

This section describes how the WIT-SVID signing keys are published to and consumed from a SPIFFE bundle. Please see the [SPIFFE Trust Domain and Bundle](SPIFFE_Trust_Domain_and_Bundle.md) specification for more information about SPIFFE bundles.

### 6.1 Publishing SPIFFE Bundle Elements

WIT-SVID signing keys for a given trust domain are represented in the SPIFFE bundle as [RFC 7517][3]-compliant JWK entries, one entry per signing key.

The `use` parameter of the JWK entry MUST be set to `wit-svid`. Additionally, the `kid` parameter of each JWK entry must be set.

### 6.2 Consuming SPIFFE Bundle Elements

> SPIFFE bundles may contain JWK entries for many different SVID types. Implementations MUST extract the WIT-SVId specification keys before using them for validation purposes. Entries representing WIT-SVID signing keys can be identified by the value of their `use` parameter, which must be `wit-svid`. If there are no entries with the `wit-svid` use parameter, then the trust domain that the bundle represents does not support WIT-SVID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SPIFFE bundles may contain JWK entries for many different SVID types. Implementations MUST extract the WIT-SVID specification keys before using them for validation purposes. Entries representing WIT-SVID signing keys can be identified by the value of their `use` parameter, which must be `wit-svid`. If there are no entries with the `wit-svid` use parameter, then the trust domain that the bundle represents does not support WIT-SVID.
```

Just a lil' typo.

Author: a8c14e4

## 7. Security Considerations

### 7.1 Proof of Possession

The WIT-SVID MUST NOT be used as a bearer token and MUST be presented with a proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim.

### 7.2 Transport Security

## Appendix A. Comparing WIMSE WIT with SPIFFE WIT-SVID

The following summarises the differences between the IETF WIMSE WIT and the SPIFFE WIT-SVID.

- JOSE Headers
  - `kid` is not defined by the WIT specification, but is mandatory in WIT-SVID.
- Claims

>   - `sub` is defined within the WIT specifications, but, is specifically defined to be the SPIFFE ID in a WIT-SIVD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `sub` is constrained to be the SPIFFE ID in WIT-SVID.
```

Author: b5207cc

## Appendix B. Comparing the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID

> TODO: Is this topic appropriate for this document? Does it better belong in SPIFFE-ID.md? or not within the specification at all? I feel this should be covered somewhere since the WIT and JWT are "visually" "similar" and likely to be confused.

Reviewer: IMHO, it belongs in here as it is the new cool kid with a very similar face*.

* SPIFFE having two JOSE friends now: the new one is into PoP (music) and the old one likes bear(er)s.

Author: I think I agree that it's a valuable/worthy appendix to include here. I wasn't too sure since the JWT/WIT are in seperate documents whether it'd be confusing for it to only be present within one of the documents, but, I think search engines et al will make this easy enough to find and it probably makes more sense for it to be in the document of the newer SVID-type than the older SVID-type. I'll write the content up regardless and we can always move it if necessary.

Reviewer 3: In my opinion it's not just JWT vs WIT but also WIT vs X.509. After all the WIT is also the little kid of X.509 where the ASN.1 genes got discarded ;)

Reviewer: > In my opinion it's not just JWT vs WIT but also WIT vs X.509.

Good thinking. JWT vs WIT is more apparent because the two look VERY similar, unlike X.509 and... anything else really unless dabbling in ITU stuff.

> the WIT is also the little kid of X.509 where the ASN.1 genes got discarded ;)

This is a really great way to frame this comparison!

Author: 44459a0

[1]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-wimse-workload-creds/
[2]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc7515
[3]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc7517
[4]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-wimse-wpt/
[5]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-wimse-http-signature/

> [6]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc7519

Reviewer: nitpick: The canonical place of RFCs is at https://www.rfc-editor.org/

(The drafts are fine to be mentioned from the datatracker)

Author: 👍  Yeah - I'll add a todo to do a pass on these when I undraft this PR and update the links.

9882c18

# The WIT SPIFFE Verifiable Identity Document

> [!WARNING]  
> This version of the document belongs to an experimental branch of the SPIFFE standards that explores integration with the WIMSE standards. Contents of this document are subject to breaking change and should not be considered stable.
>
> The current stable version of this document can be found at https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Workload_Endpoint.md

## Status of this Memo

This document specifies an identity document standard for the internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements. Distribution of this document is unlimited.

## Table of Contents

## 1. Introduction

The Workload Identity Token (WIT) is a token format specified by the IETF WIMSE working group in the [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document. The WIT binds a public key to the identity of a workload.

> The WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of this token format for use in SPIFFE contexts. This document will not redefine key elements specified within the upstream [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document and as such the reader should be familiar with this document and its contents before implementing WIT-SVID.

Reviewer 3: not a native speaker but I believe it should be the present term.
```suggestion
The WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of this token format for use in SPIFFE contexts. This document does not redefine key elements specified within the upstream [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document and as such the reader should be familiar with this document and its contents before implementing WIT-SVID.
```

Author: "Does" seems nicer - I think "will" makes sense at least in my regional dialect because we're talking about "future sections of the document".

Author: 753c2e8

WIT-SVIDs are JSON Web Signature (JWS) data structures.

### 2. JOSE Header

This section describes the JOSE headers that are defined for the WIT-SVID.

The WIT-SVID specification does not introduce any JOSE headers beyond those defined by the upstream document for the WIT. However, it does set additional restrictions and provide SPIFFE-specific guidance on some headers.

TODO: Should we summarize `alg` even if these will not differ from the WIMSE WIT?

### 2.1. Key ID - `kid`

Unique identifier of the key-pair used by the issuer to sign the WIT-SVID. The `kid` header is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this header MUST be present. This differs from the upstream WIT itself where this header is optional.

> The precise structure of this header is unspecified and it MUST be treated by verifiers as a case-sensitive string.

Reviewer 3: `structure` reads to me like I can put JSON content in it
```suggestion
The content format of this header is unspecified and it MUST be treated by verifiers as a case-sensitive string.
```

Reviewer: The wording from the standard would probably say: "the format of the value in this header parameter".

Author: Agreed - thanks for the suggestions - d45ff6c

### 3.2. JWT ID - `jti`

A unique identifier for this WIT-SVID. The meaning of this claim is defined by [RFC 7519][6].

The `jti` claim MAY be present. If present, the issuer MUST abide by the requirements set by [RFC 7519][6] and ensure that there is a negligible probability that the same value will be used by more than one WIT-SVID within the scope of the trust domain.

Typically, the `jti` will be an opaque randomly generated value of sufficient entropy as to make the chance of collision negligible.

Primarily, this claim enables distinguishing one or more WIT-SVIDs that contain the same SPIFFE ID for the purposes of auditing. For example, if a validator of a WIT-SVID records the JTI within an audit log event, this audit log event can be correlated with the one emitted by the issuer which allows the lineage of the credential to be ascertained.

Due to the nature of how this claim uniquely identifies the WIT-SVID, it could be leveraged for revocation of an individual WIT-SVID. There are no mechanisms defined within SPIFFE for the propagation of WIT-SVID revocations and this is considered out of the scope of the specification.

### 3.2. Additional Claims

> It is permitted for an implementation to include additional claims not specified in this document or the upstream document.

Reviewer 3: We should define expected client behavior when receiving a WIT-SVID with claims that aren't understood.

Author: 2c38fde

## 4. Token Signing and Validation

## 5. Token Presentation

This section describes the manner in which a WIT-SVID may be presented from one workload to another for the purposes of authentication.

> The WIT-SVID MUST always be presented by the workload with proof of possession of the key-pair contained within the `cnf`. In other words, the WIT-SVID MUST NOT be presented as a bearer token.

Reviewer 3: Worth mentioning here that this is the reason it does NOT go into the `Authorization` header? I can see that happening when someone just scrolls over the doc.

Author: 8a9117e

WIMSE defines protocols for presentation of the WIT. It is recommended that that an implementor use one of these defined protocols, however, it is not required. At the time of writing, there are two protocols:

- [WIMSE Workload Proof Token][4]
- [WIMSE Workload-To-Workload Authentication with HTTP Signatures][5]

## 6. Representation in the SPIFFE Bundle

This section describes how the WIT-SVID signing keys are published to and consumed from a SPIFFE bundle. Please see the [SPIFFE Trust Domain and Bundle](SPIFFE_Trust_Domain_and_Bundle.md) specification for more information about SPIFFE bundles.

### 6.1 Publishing SPIFFE Bundle Elements

WIT-SVID signing keys for a given trust domain are represented in the SPIFFE bundle as [RFC 7517][3]-compliant JWK entries, one entry per signing key.

> The `use` parameter of the JWK entry MUST be set to `wit-svid`. Additionally, the `kid` parameter of each JWK entry must be set.

Reviewer 3: I think we should add wording that a `kid` of a WIT-SVID signing key MUST NOT collide with a `kid` of a JWT-SVID. So far that wasn't a problem as only JWT-SVID entries carried `kid` attributes.

Author: 10ca4d1

### 6.2 Consuming SPIFFE Bundle Elements

> SPIFFE bundles may contain JWK entries for many different SVID types. Implementations MUST extract the WIT-SVID specification keys before using them for validation purposes. Entries representing WIT-SVID signing keys can be identified by the value of their `use` parameter, which must be `wit-svid`. If there are no entries with the `wit-svid` use parameter, then the trust domain that the bundle represents does not support WIT-SVID.

Reviewer 3: ```
If there are no entries with the `wit-svid` use parameter, then the trust domain that the bundle represents does not support WIT-SVID.
```
Does this make a nice indicator to detect of your peer TD supports WIT-SVID 🤔 I wonder if there's implications for SPIFFE Federation in general.

Author: > Does this make a nice indicator to detect of your peer TD supports WIT-SVID 🤔

I think so? But I agree there should probably be some wider thinking about this topic, even if this may turn into a can of worms.

Reviewer: I don't think federation is impacted beyond what has been written so far (i.e., that new key uses will now be present if supported).

Author: The way I'm looking at it, which may not be the same way Arndt is, is that whilst I don't foresee any negative "impact" per-se, I do think it raises some interesting questions about federation and communicating capabilities across trust domains.

The inclusion of the `wit-svid` use key within the SPIFFE bundle acts as an implicit indicator for support, but perhaps a more explicit set of capabilities communicated between two federated trust domains has the potential to provide value. Imho - this isn't a discussion for here - but something we ought to think somepoint about in terms of the wider SPIFFE spec.

## 7. Security Considerations

### 7.1 Proof of Possession

> The WIT-SVID MUST NOT be used as a bearer token and MUST be presented with a proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim.

Reviewer 3: More importantly: "MUST NOT be accepted without a proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim."

Reviewer: The more we block bad decisions, the better for the ecosystem.

Thus, even more like (with validation):

```suggestion
The WIT-SVID MUST NOT be used as a bearer token and MUST be presented with a proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim.
WIT-SVID MUST NOT be accepted without an appropriate validation of the proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim. The format of the proof of possession and the method of validation depend on the employed communication protocol. The details of such are beyond the scope of this specification.
```

(could recall the two known protocols here again or better cross-reference to the relevant section in here)

Author: 8d2d73b

>
> The current stable version of this document can be found at https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Workload_Endpoint.md

## Status of this Memo

This document specifies an identity document standard for the internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements. Distribution of this document is unlimited.

## Table of Contents

## 1. Introduction

The Workload Identity Token (WIT) is a token format specified by the IETF WIMSE working group in the [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document. The WIT binds a public key to the identity of a workload.

The WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of this token format for use in SPIFFE contexts. This document will not redefine key elements specified within the upstream [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document and as such the reader should be familiar with this document and its contents before implementing WIT-SVID.

WIT-SVIDs are JSON Web Signature (JWS) data structures.

### 2. JOSE Header

> This section describes the JOSE headers that are defined for the WIT-SVID.

Reviewer: Just had a look at the standard and "header" means the entire "JOSE header", i.e., the JSON object.

We should use "header parameter" for the key-value pairs in there.

Author: Good catch - c0151e2

The `use` parameter of the JWK entry MUST be set to `wit-svid`. Additionally, the `kid` parameter of each JWK entry must be set.

### 6.2 Consuming SPIFFE Bundle Elements

SPIFFE bundles may contain JWK entries for many different SVID types. Implementations MUST extract the WIT-SVID specification keys before using them for validation purposes. Entries representing WIT-SVID signing keys can be identified by the value of their `use` parameter, which must be `wit-svid`. If there are no entries with the `wit-svid` use parameter, then the trust domain that the bundle represents does not support WIT-SVID.

## 7. Security Considerations

### 7.1 Proof of Possession

The WIT-SVID MUST NOT be used as a bearer token and MUST be presented with a proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim.

### 7.2 Transport Security

## Appendix A. Comparing WIMSE WIT with SPIFFE WIT-SVID

The following summarises the differences between the IETF WIMSE WIT and the SPIFFE WIT-SVID.

- JOSE Headers
  - `kid` is not defined by the WIT specification, but is mandatory in WIT-SVID.
- Claims

>   - `sub` is defined within the WIT specifications, but, in WIT-SVID is constrained to be the SPIFFE ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `sub` in WIT-SVID is constrained to be the SPIFFE ID.
```

I'm reproposing this because I feel like saying that it is defined is easy to misread as "is not defined" -- especially considering the other change (and it does not really call out a difference here).

Otherwise, we would want to fix the punctuation after "but", for example to the following:

```
, but, in WIT-SVID, it is constrained...
```

(note there are many possible punctuation variants but the current one is very likely incorrect in both typical British and American spellings AFAICT)

Author: I'm thinking that perhaps a comparison table may make more sense here for the sake of being as clear as possible and reducing the risk of misreading - wdyt?

Reviewer: Makes sense to me. Let's keep this thread open and wait with the reformatting for the rest of the content here and in WIMSE specs to stabilize though.

## 7. Security Considerations

### 7.1 Proof of Possession

The WIT-SVID MUST NOT be used as a bearer token and MUST be presented with a proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim.

### 7.2 Transport Security

## Appendix A. Example WIT-SVID

Signed JWT: `eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IndpdCtqd3QifQ.eyJjbmYiOnsiandrIjp7ImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2IiwiY3J2IjoiUC0yNTYiLCJrdHkiOiJFQyIsIngiOiJ2amFOU1c4ZmRXLXh1Z0QtUDRpSHVTQVdzbGFRZlF5LTZjaXhHMzlWdl9JIiwieSI6ImFzUWlreFZxZzNoTTFDa0k4LVhwT3pfSkhDU1BNREtnbzVXSW53R2R0bkEifX0sImV4cCI6MTc2NDE1MzY4MCwiaWF0IjoxNzY0MTUwMDgwLCJqdGkiOiJEQkIyXzN4eDg0UjB5N2RmZFBJaDJCNndpWGdaUVhGSW9JYU1jbXk2LXowIiwic3ViIjoic3BpZmZlOi8vZXhhbXBsZS5jb20vbXktd29ya2xvYWQifQ.MQMj9fhGtMRSSZexqJXgYJXIItbtPq884dsEGaUxzzPRYA4DE_2926EtJm3KNDAaDhBnHD996rPqFq3UNAB3hA`

Header:

```json
{
  "alg": "ES256",
  "typ": "wit+jwt"
}
```

Payload:

```json
{
  "cnf": {
    "jwk": {

>       "alg": "ES256",

Reviewer: This reminded me - we have not touched upon the JWT's `cnf.jwk.alg` part. Do we limit it to the same algs?

Reviewer 3: The IETF spec says 

> To promote interoperability, the ES256 signing algorithm MUST be supported by general purpose implementations of this document.

I'm somewhat inclined to set this fixed in this spec?

Reviewer: > The IETF spec says
> 
> > To promote interoperability, the ES256 signing algorithm MUST be supported by general purpose implementations of this document.
> 
> I'm somewhat inclined to set this fixed in this spec?

I agree, this might be good to follow. There really aren't good reasons to use something else TBH (especially with new designs).

That said, however, do we say it's the only option that SPIFFE allows? Would we want to let workloads request a particular alg? (This is a q more about the workload API now)

Author: [60a3d71](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/pull/361/commits/60a3d7191be1689b326a9bef59b3eacf649de980)

### 3.5. Not Before - `nbf`

The timestamp at which this WIT-SVID became valid. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `nbf` claim SHOULD be present and validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs when the time indicated by `nbf` is in the future.

Notably, this value may be set to a time shortly in the past relative to the time of issuance, this permits a certain degree of clock skew between validator and issuer.

### 3.6. Issued At - `iat`

The timestamp at which this WIT-SVID was issued. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `iat` claim SHOULD be present. This claim MUST NOT be used for limiting the earliest validity of a WIT-SVID, this is the purpose of the `nbf` claim.

This claim exists to assist with auditing and diagnostics.

### 3.7. Issuer - `iss`

The issuer of this WIT-SVID. The meaning of this claim is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `iss` claim MAY be present. When present, it SHOULD NOT be a value compatible with OpenID Connect Discovery - this is to prevent the validation and acceptance of the WIT-SVID as an OIDC ID Token without validation of a proof of possession.

> Within SPIFFE, there already exists mechanisms for the distribution of trust bundles, and, the trust domain part of the `sub` broadly identifies the issuer. In many cases, this makes the `iss` claim redundant. The specification has intentionally been left relaxed for the `iss` claim to support the usage of alternative trust distribution models and developments to the specification in future.

Reviewer 5: Accidental comma splice on this first sentence?

```suggestion
Within SPIFFE, there already exists mechanisms for the distribution of trust bundles, and the trust domain part of the `sub` broadly identifies the issuer. In many cases, this makes the `iss` claim redundant. The specification has intentionally been left relaxed for the `iss` claim to support the usage of alternative trust distribution models and developments to the specification in future.
```

Author: Drat - I probably ought to search the whole document for these. It's a very bad habit in my writing ahah.

Author: [8d9b474](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/pull/361/commits/8d9b474421f3ad4d3b1df85599a5f7f92bd69c21)

### 3.8. Additional Claims

It is permitted for an implementation to include additional claims not specified in this document or the upstream document.

When encountering additional claims that it does not recognize, a validator should ignore them.

## 4. Token Issuance and Validation

This section describes the manner in which a WIT-SVID may be issued and validated.

> The process of signing a WIT-SVID does not differ significantly from the well-established for signing a JWT-SVID or a JWT more generally. Implementors should follow the canonical process set out by [RFC7519][6]. However, they should bear in mind the following specific requirements for WIT-SVIDs:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The process of signing a WIT-SVID does not differ significantly from the well-established signing method of a JWT-SVID or a JWT more generally. Implementors should follow the canonical process set out by [RFC7519][6]. However, they should bear in mind the following specific requirements for WIT-SVIDs:
```

Author: 2f75fa2

# The WIT SPIFFE Verifiable Identity Document

> [!WARNING]  
> This version of the document belongs to an experimental branch of the SPIFFE standards that explores integration with the WIMSE standards. Contents of this document are subject to breaking change and should not be considered stable.
>
> The current stable version of this document can be found at https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Workload_Endpoint.md

## Status of this Memo

This document specifies an identity document standard for the internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements. Distribution of this document is unlimited.

## Table of Contents

## 1. Introduction

The Workload Identity Token (WIT) is a token format specified by the IETF WIMSE working group in the [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document. The WIT binds a public key to the identity of a workload.

> The WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of this token format for use in SPIFFE contexts. This document does not redefine key elements specified within the upstream [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document and as such the reader should be familiar with this document and its contents before implementing WIT-SVID.

Reviewer 3: A question readers may have is whether WIMSE-WITs are compatible with WIT-SVIDs and vice versa.

Author: Good question - I think we can cover that in the introduction.

Author: d104a48

### 2.2. Type - `typ`

The `typ` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and MUST be set to `wit+jwt`.

### 2.3. Algorithm - `alg`

Identifies the cryptographic algorithm used to sign the WIT-SVID. The `alg` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and set to one of the following supported values:

`alg` Param Value | Digital Signature Algorithm
------------------|-----------------------------
RS256 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-256
RS384 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-384
RS512 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512
ES256 | ECDSA using P-256 and SHA-256
ES384 | ECDSA using P-384 and SHA-384
ES512 | ECDSA using P-521 and SHA-512
PS256 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-256 and MGF1 with SHA-256
PS384 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-384 and MGF1 with SHA-384
PS512 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-512 and MGF1 with SHA-512

Validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs with an unsupported `alg` parameter value.

### 2.3. Additional Header Parameters

> Implementations SHOULD NOT provide additional header parameters not specified by this document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Implementations SHOULD NOT provide additional header parameters not specified by this document and validators SHOULD ignore additional header parameters. 
```

Author: I'd like to discuss this in SIG-SPEC today - as I worry ignoring all additional header parameters conflicts with `crit`.

Author: aea3308fff33be39bebfaf6be3880ac336a10b7c

### 3.3. JWT ID - `jti`

A unique identifier for this WIT-SVID. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `jti` claim MAY be present. If present, the issuer MUST abide by the requirements set by [RFC 7519][6] and ensure that there is a negligible probability that the same value will be used by more than one WIT-SVID within the scope of the trust domain.

Typically, the `jti` will be an opaque randomly generated value of sufficient entropy as to make the chance of collision negligible.

Primarily, this claim enables distinguishing one or more WIT-SVIDs that contain the same SPIFFE ID for the purposes of auditing. For example, if a validator of a WIT-SVID records the JTI within an audit log event, this audit log event can be correlated with the one emitted by the issuer which allows the lineage of the credential to be ascertained.

Due to the nature of how this claim uniquely identifies the WIT-SVID, it could be leveraged for revocation of an individual WIT-SVID. There are no mechanisms defined within SPIFFE for the propagation of WIT-SVID revocations and this is considered out of the scope of the specification.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

The `jti` SHOULD NOT be used for replay protection as this token is expected to be re-used. 

Implementations MAY release the same WIT-SVID with the same `jti` to two different instances on the same note.

```

Author: In your second sentence here - do you mean to say `jti` rather than `kid`?

Reviewer 3: Yeah .. too much context switching ..

Author: 769087e

### 3.3. Expiry - `exp`

The timestamp at which this WIT-SVID is no longer valid. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

> The `exp` claim MUST be present and validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs that do not include this claim and MUST reject WIT-SVIDs when the time indicated by `exp` is in the past.

Reviewer 3: Theoretically speaking, this wouldn't allow for clock skew allowance?

Author: Good spot - 269e2ec

This claim is the primary control of the length of time for which a WIT-SVID is valid. This specification does not set any hard upper or lower limits on the length of the validity period.

It is recommended to choose a reasonable value that balances the cost of issuing and distributing WIT-SVIDs to workloads against limiting the period of time in which an exfiltrated WIT-SVID and key-pair remains useful to a bad actor. This is typically a period ranging from minutes to hours.

### 3.5. Not Before - `nbf`

The timestamp at which this WIT-SVID became valid. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

> The `nbf` claim SHOULD be present and validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs when the time indicated by `nbf` is in the future.

Reviewer 3: It may also be used to reject WIT-SVIDs that have a lifetime beyond policy. But not sure if there's value mentioning it here?

Author: c96f90d

### 3.8. Additional Claims

It is permitted for an implementation to include additional claims not specified in this document or the upstream document.

When encountering additional claims that it does not recognize, a validator should ignore them.

## 4. Token Issuance and Validation

This section describes the manner in which a WIT-SVID may be issued and validated.

The process of signing a WIT-SVID does not differ significantly from the well-established method for signing a JWT-SVID or a JWT. Implementors should follow the canonical process set out by [RFC7519][6]. However, they should bear in mind the following specific requirements for WIT-SVIDs:

- The issuer MUST use one of the permitted algorithms for signing the WIT-SVID JWT as per [2.3. Algorithm - `alg`](#23-algorithm---alg).
- The issuer MUST set the `alg`, `typ` and `kid` header parameters.
- The issuer MUST set the `sub`, `exp` and `cnf` claims.

> - The issuer MUST set the `cnf.jwk.alg` claim to one of the permitted algorithms as per [3.2 Confirmation - `cnf`](#32-confirmation---cnf)

Reviewer 3: This makes me wonder, do we want to talk more about the workload key apart from algorithm? Like can it be re-used? Is it ok to give it to multiple instances on the same node? Across?

Author: I think we should definitely provide more detail around this - even if it is just "MAY" as I think it is a question implementers will ask. I think SPIRE sets a precedent here that it's acceptable for workloads on the same node to share a key-pair (at least for other types of SVID).

Author: d5c420c

```json
{
  "cnf": {
    "jwk": {
      "alg": "ES256",
      "crv": "P-256",
      "kty": "EC",
      "x": "rzP7mLCKAHWmsM6X0EwVISC_hI3ujcu95ffUkyeDGGo",
      "y": "uOrfDljtX9m3jY-hsyhLJYaxtGkzDv5e5kmCe58Z97g"
    }
  },
  "exp": 1765456503,
  "iat": 1765452903,
  "jti": "1yj19V4McOAzMcFi7qvsg_AgCxlrY5E_x509wlKKQtc",
  "sub": "spiffe://example.com/my-workload"
}
```

## Appendix B. Comparing WIMSE WIT with SPIFFE WIT-SVID

This appendix summarises the differences between the IETF WIMSE WIT and the SPIFFE WIT-SVID.

- JOSE Headers
  - `kid` is not defined by the WIT specification, but is mandatory in WIT-SVID.
- Claims
  - `sub` is defined within the WIT specifications, but, in WIT-SVID is constrained to be the SPIFFE ID.

## Appendix C. Comparing the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID

This appendix explores the differences between the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID from a structural and presentational point of view. For a more in-depth exploration of the types of SVIDs and guidance on selecting between them, see the [Best Practices: SVID Type Comparison document][8].

Whilst at first glance the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID may look quite similar, there are a number of differences to keep in mind.

> First and foremost, the WIT-SVID includes a public key belonging to the workload when authenticating with the WIT-SVID it is required for the workload to also perform a proof of possession of the private key. This differs significantly from JWT-SVIDs which are bearer tokens - presentation of the JWT-SVID alone is enough to authenticate using it. This creates a difference in how they must be handled, with a JWT-SVID being significantly more susceptible to replay by a bad actor who has intercepted it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First and foremost, the WIT-SVID includes a public key belonging to the workload. When authenticating with the WIT-SVID it is required for the workload to also perform a proof of possession of the private key. This differs significantly from JWT-SVIDs which are bearer tokens - presentation of the JWT-SVID alone is enough to authenticate using it. This creates a difference in how they must be handled, with a JWT-SVID being significantly more susceptible to replay by a bad actor who has intercepted it.
```

Author: c395b1a

Because of their sensitive nature, it is highly recommended that JWT-SVIDs have the shortest lifespan possible (e.g. seconds, minutes) whereas the proof of possession mechanism for WIT-SVIDs means it is perfectly acceptable for a WIT-SVID to have a lifespan in the order of hours.

> Notably, the WIT-SVID makes the `kid` header parameter mandatory whereas the JWT-SVID does not. This change was intended to reflect reality: a significant number of JWT-SVID validation implementations (e.g `go-spiffe`, SPIRE) within the SPIFFE ecosystem will reject a perfectly spec-compliant JWT-SVID without the `kid` parameter, making this a de-facto requirement. A similar situation would be likely to occur if the `kid` header parameter was optional for the WIT-SVID. Therefore, making this mandatory from the outset increases the chances of the implementations and the specification being in coherence in regards to the `kid` header parameter.

Reviewer 3: To me this is is not the primary reason. I believe having a jti claim is just good hygiene and allows identifying a specific credential like a X.509 Thumbprint.

Author: Do you mean `kid` here ?

Reviewer 3: Ohh, I was too much context switching while writing this one. What I wrote about is not making sense at all.

Whilst at first glance the X509-SVID and WIT-SVID may be quite visually distinct, they share a number of common traits:

- Both contain a public key belonging to the workload and when authenticating using the SVID, the workload must demonstrate possession using the corresponding private key. The possession of the X509-SVID or the WIT-SVID alone is not enough to authenticate using it and because of this, they do not need to be treated as "sensitive" values.
- Both are likely to have lifespans of comparable lengths (e.g minutes to hours).
- Both are cryptographically signed by an issuer, and, a validator uses this signature to ensure that it is a legitimate credential and has not been tampered with.

They do however differ in a number of key ways:

- X509-SVIDs are X.509 certificates - it is an extremely mature standard and good support for authentication based on them (e.g TLS) is available in most languages. WITs are much less mature and language support is likely to be initially limited.

> - Typically, X509-SVIDs are associated with mTLS - which provides not only authentication but also protection from eavesdropping. Whilst WIT-SVIDs cannot be used for TLS, they can both be used with other mechanisms (e.g. HTTP Message Signatures).

Reviewer 3: > they can both be used with other mechanisms (e.g. HTTP Message Signatures).

This sounds like X.509 can be used with HTTP Message Signatures. 

In general I don't see a clear differentiation in this bullet point. I believe a much stronger one, which I may even put on top is

- X.509 certificates are typically presented and mutually authenticated at the network layer using TLS. They authenticate a channel. A WIT-SVID would typically be sent along with a single request on the application layer. They authenticate a single invocation.

Author: > This sounds like X.509 can be used with HTTP Message Signatures.

For some reason, I'd mistakenly recalled that they could 😅  But you are correct here.

Author: e94139c

This parameter allows a validator to select the correct public key from a trust bundle for validating the signature of a WIT-SVID without enumerating all keys.

### 2.2. Type - `typ`

The `typ` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and MUST be set to `wit+jwt`.

### 2.3. Algorithm - `alg`

Identifies the cryptographic algorithm used to sign the WIT-SVID. The `alg` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and set to one of the following supported values:

`alg` Param Value | Digital Signature Algorithm
------------------|-----------------------------
RS256 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-256
RS384 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-384
RS512 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512
ES256 | ECDSA using P-256 and SHA-256
ES384 | ECDSA using P-384 and SHA-384
ES512 | ECDSA using P-521 and SHA-512
PS256 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-256 and MGF1 with SHA-256
PS384 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-384 and MGF1 with SHA-384
PS512 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-512 and MGF1 with SHA-512

Validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs with an unsupported `alg` parameter value.

> ### 2.3. Additional Header Parameters

Author: From SIG-SPEC: Rough consensus that we should acknowledge the existence of crit - and tell validators to follow the rules set out by RFC7515.

Author: aea3308

Additionally, the lifespan of a Proof of Possession MUST be limited and SHOULD be limited to a shortest period necessary to serve its intended purpose. This reduces the window in which they can be replayed by an attacker. In ideal circumstances, the lifespan could feasibly be set to a small number of seconds, however the lower bound of this value may be constrained by factors such as clock skew and network latency.

Recipients MAY choose to prevent replay by only permitting a distinct proof of possession to be used at most once. This may be implemented by recording some unique identifier of the proof of possesion (e.g. in the case of the WIMSE WPT, the `jti` claim). This requires a degree of coordination between the sender and the recipient as the sender must be aware that it can only use a proof of possession once.

### 7.3 Transport Security

The WIT-SVID and corresponding proof of possession MUST be transmitted over a secure channel (e.g. server authenticated TLS).

> ## Appendix A. Example WIT-SVID

Reviewer 5: Not 100% sure why but this isn't rendering as a heading

Author: Hah - somehow a NBSP slipped in. Fixed in 8528758

```json
{
  "alg": "ES256",
  "kid": "lQSi3hZFnda2D-XJkj1zl7foJouiwI4nrAyhy4jZiJg",
  "typ": "wit+jwt"
}
```

Payload:

```json
{
  "cnf": {
    "jwk": {
      "alg": "ES256",
      "crv": "P-256",
      "kty": "EC",
      "x": "rzP7mLCKAHWmsM6X0EwVISC_hI3ujcu95ffUkyeDGGo",
      "y": "uOrfDljtX9m3jY-hsyhLJYaxtGkzDv5e5kmCe58Z97g"
    }
  },
  "exp": 1765456503,
  "iat": 1765452903,
  "jti": "1yj19V4McOAzMcFi7qvsg_AgCxlrY5E_x509wlKKQtc",
  "sub": "spiffe://example.com/my-workload"
}
```

## Appendix B. Comparing WIMSE WIT with SPIFFE WIT-SVID

This appendix summarises the differences between the IETF WIMSE WIT and the SPIFFE WIT-SVID:

- `kid` header parameter: this is not required in a WIT, but is required in a WIT-SVID.
- `alg` header parameter: in a WIT, this may be any algorithm registered in the IANA JOSE Algorithms registry with the exception of `none`. For a WIT-SVID, the possible set of values is constrained to a subset of the registry values.
- additional header parameters: it is not forbidden to include additional header parameters in the WIT. In a WIT-SVID, the inclusion of additional header parameters is forbidden.
- `sub` claim: in a WIT-SVID, this must be a SPIFFE ID.

> - `cnf.jwk.alg` claim: in a WIT, this may be any algorithm registered in the IANA JOSE Algorithms registry with the exception of `none`. For a WIT-SVID, the possible set of values is constrained to a subset of the registry values.

Reviewer 5: Could this be a table with each parameter with a tick or cross dependent on its existence in SPIFFE WIT-SVID?

Author: I considered this - but my worry was how to convey the finer points of the requirements e.g `cnf.jwk.alg` is required in both, but is scoped down in WIT-SVID. I suppose this could be solved by some references/notes below, but, I figure there's enough of these notes that it will require a lot of looking up/down at the table and the notes. Curious what everyone else thinks.

Reviewer 5: Maybe it could be something like both - a quick manifest of inclusion in WIT-SVID, and then some exposition added to a section after it (perhaps as bullets or similar)?

Author: 👍  Agree - I'll try this out in the morning and push something up.

Author: [b87a7c9](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/pull/361/commits/b87a7c9f641d75a1d2ff3fa66d7724cbedf968ac)

## Appendix C. Comparing the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID

This appendix explores the differences between the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID from a structural and presentational point of view. For a more in-depth exploration of the types of SVIDs and guidance on selecting between them, see the [Best Practices: SVID Type Comparison document][8].

Whilst at first glance the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID may look quite similar, there are a number of differences to keep in mind.

First and foremost, the WIT-SVID includes a public key belonging to the workload when authenticating with the WIT-SVID it is required for the workload to also perform a proof of possession of the private key. This differs significantly from JWT-SVIDs which are bearer tokens - presentation of the JWT-SVID alone is enough to authenticate using it. This creates a difference in how they must be handled, with a JWT-SVID being significantly more susceptible to replay by a bad actor who has intercepted it.

> Because of their sensitive nature, it is highly recommended that JWT-SVIDs have the shortest lifespan possible (e.g. seconds, minutes) whereas the proof of possession mechanism for WIT-SVIDs means it is perfectly acceptable for a WIT-SVID to have a lifespan in the order of hours.

Reviewer 5: Does this need to be qualified more? Shorter ~= more secure, and I understand the reasoning but perhaps a sentence adding why the PoP mechanism provides this would be good. We'd probably rather get users thinking "PoP means less requirement for extremely short TTLs" rather than "PoP means hours"

Author: Yes - I think so. It's a key contrast point between the JWT and the WIT from an issuance point of view - I suppose I was effectively trying to say "For the purpose of TTLs, a WIT is more similar to an X509 in that it is acceptable to have a TTL in the range of hours, whereas for a JWT, if you had a TTL in the range of hours I'd be concerned". I'll try and add some verbiage to still emphasize shorter == better.

Author: 655da04

> Notably, the WIT-SVID makes the `kid` header parameter mandatory whereas the JWT-SVID does not. This change was intended to reflect reality: a significant number of JWT-SVID validation implementations (e.g `go-spiffe`, SPIRE) within the SPIFFE ecosystem will reject a perfectly spec-compliant JWT-SVID without the `kid` parameter, making this a de-facto requirement. A similar situation would be likely to occur if the `kid` header parameter was optional for the WIT-SVID. Therefore, making this mandatory from the outset increases the chances of the implementations and the specification being in coherence in regards to the `kid` header parameter.

Reviewer 5: Could perhaps make some of the language a little more neutral here (e.g. "perfectly spec-complaint" could just be "compliant")

Author: Yeah - I think I tried to loosen up the tone for the Appendixes to make them a little more flavoured but possibly went too loose here :') I'll adjust this to be a little more formal.

Author: 655da04

## Appendix D. Comparing the X509-SVID and WIT-SVID

> This appendix explores the differences between the X509-SVID and WIT-SVID from a structural and presentational point of view. For a more in-depth exploration of the types of SVIDs and guidance on selecting between them, see the [Best Practices: SVID Type Comparison document][8].

Reviewer 5: I wonder if this could just be a direct link to the BCP and these points are added to that document. I can see the need for the appendix compared the JWT-SVID with WIT-SVID due to their share lineage but this seems like more of a trade-offs section

Author: I do think there's still some value to covering this, at least partially, within this appendix since it provides a reference point for those trying to understand WIT-SVIDs who are already familiar with the structure/format of X509-SVIDs. If there's particular points here that you think sway towards being more about usage/selection, then I'd be happy to reword/remove them. Happy to discuss further in next SIG-SPEC.

Reviewer 5: Agree to leaving this here, with prospectively adding a link to the BCP once released

Validators should ignore unknown header parameters except where those header parameters are specified by the `crit` header parameter as per [RFC7515][2].

### 3. Claims

This section describes the claims that are defined for the WIT-SVID.

The WIT-SVID specification does not introduce any claims beyond those defined by the upstream document for the WIT. However, it does set additional restrictions and provide SPIFFE-specific guidance on some claims.

<--
Within this section, I've tried to abide by the following "structure" for each claim:

- Definition
- Requirements
- Advisory information on purpose/usage.
-->

### 3.1. Subject - `sub`

The identity of the workload holding the WIT-SVID.

The `sub` claim MUST be present and MUST be set to the SPIFFE ID of the workload to which it is issued.

This is the primary claim against which workload identity is asserted.

For example: `spiffe://example.org/service`.

### 3.2 Confirmation - `cnf`

The public key of the workload. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7800][7] and [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1].

> In addition to the requirements set out in RFC7800 and WIMSE Workload Credentials, the `cnf.jwk.alg` claim MUST have one of the following supported values:

Reviewer 2: It goes without saying, but we should mention that this claim must be present.

Author: aae7447

Typically, the `jti` will be an opaque randomly generated value of sufficient entropy as to make the chance of collision negligible.

Primarily, this claim enables distinguishing one or more WIT-SVIDs that contain the same SPIFFE ID for the purposes of auditing. For example, if a validator of a WIT-SVID records the JTI within an audit log event, this audit log event can be correlated with the one emitted by the issuer which allows the lineage of the credential to be ascertained.

Due to the nature of how this claim uniquely identifies the WIT-SVID, it could be leveraged for revocation of an individual WIT-SVID. There are no mechanisms defined within SPIFFE for the propagation of WIT-SVID revocations and this is considered out of the scope of the specification.

Implementations MAY issue a WIT-SVID with the same `jti` to two different instances of the workload on the same node. As such, the `jti` SHOULD NOT be used for replay protection.

> ### 3.3. Expiry - `exp`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3.4. Expiry - `exp`
```

Author: e2fdaf7

The timestamp at which this WIT-SVID is no longer valid. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `exp` claim MUST be present and validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs that do not include this claim and MUST reject WIT-SVIDs when the time indicated by `exp` is in the past. Validators MAY allow a small amount of leeway (e.g seconds to at most a couple of minutes) when comparing the expiry time to the current time to account for clock skew.

This claim is the primary control of the length of time for which a WIT-SVID is valid. This specification does not set any hard upper or lower limits on the length of the validity period.

It is recommended to choose a reasonable value that balances the cost of issuing and distributing WIT-SVIDs to workloads against limiting the period of time in which an exfiltrated WIT-SVID and key-pair remains useful to a bad actor. This is typically a period ranging from minutes to hours.

> ### 3.5. Not Before - `nbf`

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to explicitly support this? I think most implementations would create these tokens when requested (or for use immediately) by a workload and as such it can't set this to anything other than "now" (- some leeway). In that case it may be simpler to just not mention it.

If we still want to mention it, could we downgrade it to a MAY? Maybe similarly for `iat`?

Author: I think `nbf` is a useful claim to include in the document as whilst it is optional for an issuer to include it, validators must understand and enforce it. As we expect new implementations of validators to come around for WIT/WIT-SVID, keeping it front of mind seems useful to avoid it being omitted.

As for MAY vs SHOULD: I don't think I have an overly strong position here. It's been a useful claim to me in the past for enforcing things like maximum TTL at the validator. I'd be curious what others think here - since it doesn't seem harmful to include and (as with `iat`) brings some potential value so I do find myself leaning towards SHOULD.

Reviewer 2: I think my position here mostly comes from the fact that we specify both `nbf` and `iat` as SHOULD which kind to me says I should have a good reason for not including them. In most cases with SPIFFE these would be very similar, different only by the leeway of the `nbf`.

Maybe another option would be to have just `nbf`? I agree that it's useful to have at least one of them in there and `nbf` seems a bit more useful.

I also don't have a strong opinion on this, I'm happy either way we go with this.

Author: Yeah, I think I see your viewpoint here. Perhaps `nbf` is SHOULD and `iat` is MAY? From my perspective, `nbf` is probably the more important one to draw attention to since validators must understand/enforce it, and it has more of an actual behavioural effect as opposed to `iat` which is only really useful for debugging.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think that would be fine. I agree with you that `nbf` is a bit more useful.

Author: 57858cd

This parameter allows a validator to select the correct public key from a trust bundle for validating the signature of a WIT-SVID without enumerating all keys.

### 2.2. Type - `typ`

The `typ` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and MUST be set to `wit+jwt`.

### 2.3. Algorithm - `alg`

Identifies the cryptographic algorithm used to sign the WIT-SVID. The `alg` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and set to one of the following supported values:

`alg` Param Value | Digital Signature Algorithm
------------------|-----------------------------
RS256 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-256
RS384 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-384
RS512 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512
ES256 | ECDSA using P-256 and SHA-256
ES384 | ECDSA using P-384 and SHA-384
ES512 | ECDSA using P-521 and SHA-512
PS256 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-256 and MGF1 with SHA-256
PS384 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-384 and MGF1 with SHA-384
PS512 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-512 and MGF1 with SHA-512

Validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs with an unsupported `alg` parameter value.

> ### 2.3. Additional Header Parameters

Reviewer 5: Dupe 2.3 section, this should be 2.4

Author: b3f9921

Typically, the `jti` will be an opaque randomly generated value of sufficient entropy as to make the chance of collision negligible.

Primarily, this claim enables distinguishing one or more WIT-SVIDs that contain the same SPIFFE ID for the purposes of auditing. For example, if a validator of a WIT-SVID records the JTI within an audit log event, this audit log event can be correlated with the one emitted by the issuer which allows the lineage of the credential to be ascertained.

Due to the nature of how this claim uniquely identifies the WIT-SVID, it could be leveraged for revocation of an individual WIT-SVID. There are no mechanisms defined within SPIFFE for the propagation of WIT-SVID revocations and this is considered out of the scope of the specification.

Implementations MAY issue a WIT-SVID with the same `jti` to two different instances of the workload on the same node. As such, the `jti` SHOULD NOT be used for replay protection.

> ### 3.3. Expiry - `exp`

Reviewer 5: Dupe 3.3 heading, should be 3.4 here (and so on)

Author: b3f9921

- The issuer MUST set the `alg`, `typ` and `kid` header parameters.
- The issuer MUST set the `sub`, `exp` and `cnf` claims.
- The issuer MUST set the `cnf.jwk.alg` claim to one of the permitted algorithms as per [3.2 Confirmation - `cnf`](#32-confirmation---cnf)
- The issuer SHOULD set the `jti`, `nbf` and `iat` claims.

The issuer MAY issue the same WIT-SVID, or WIT-SVIDs with the same key within the `cnf`, to instances of the same workload running on the same host. This may be useful in cases where an implementor wishes to have a local agent of the issuer cache WIT-SVIDs for workloads for performance or reliability reasons. Implementors should consider how this impacts the relationship between a WIT-SVID and a specific instance of a workload for the purposes of auditing or revocation.

The process of validating a WIT-SVID is similar to the well-established process for validating a JWT-SVID or a JWT more generally. Implementors should follow the canonical process set out by [RFC7519][6]. However, they should bear in mind the following specific requirements for WIT-SVIDs:

> - The validator MUST NOT accept the WIT-SVID without an appropriate proof of posession of the key-pair contained within the `cnf`.

Reviewer 5: typo: possession

Author: b3f9921

## 5. Token Presentation

This section describes the manner in which a WIT-SVID may be presented from one workload to another for the purposes of authentication.

The WIT-SVID MUST always be presented by the workload with proof of possession of the key-pair contained within the `cnf`. In other words, the WIT-SVID MUST NOT be presented as a bearer token and therefore MUST NOT be presented using the HTTP `Authorization` header.

> WIMSE defines protocols for presentation of the WIT and accompanying proof of possession. It is recommended that that an implementor use one of these defined protocols. The use of other protocols is permitted if they meet the requirements set out above. At the time of writing, there are two protocols specified by WIMSE for WIT:

Reviewer 5: dupe "that"

Author: b3f9921

  "sub": "spiffe://example.com/my-workload"
}
```

## Appendix B. Comparing WIMSE WIT with SPIFFE WIT-SVID

This appendix summarises the differences between the IETF WIMSE WIT and the SPIFFE WIT-SVID.

Key:

- ✓: Mandatory (MUST)
- ~: Optional (SHOULD, MAY)
- ✗: Prohibited (SHOULD NOT, MUST NOT)
- *: Note below

Header Parameter             | WIT-SVID | WIMSE WIT
-----------------------------|----------|----------
`kid`                        | ✓        | ~
`typ`                        | ✓        | ✓
`alg`                        | ✓*       | ✓
Additional header parameters | ✗        | ~

Notes:

- `alg`: The WIT-SVID requires the `alg` header parameter to be a value specified within this document. The WIMSE WIT accepts any algorithm registered in the IANA JOSE registry with the exception of `none`.

Claim             | WIT-SVID | WIMSE WIT
------------------|----------|----------
`sub`             | ✓*       | ✓
`cnf`             | ✓*       | ✓
`jti`             | ~        | ~
`exp`             | ✓        | ✓
`iat`             | ~        | ~
`nbf`             | ~        | ~
`iss`             | ~*       | ~
Additional claims | ~        | ~

Notes:

> - `sub` claim: The WIT-SVID requires that this must be a SPIFFE ID. The WIMSE WIT requirs that this be a WIMSE Workload Identifier. A SPIFFE ID is a WIMSE Workload Identifier.

Reviewer 5: typo: requires

Author: b3f9921

### 3.3. JWT ID - `jti`

A unique identifier for this WIT-SVID. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `jti` claim MAY be present. If present, the issuer MUST abide by the requirements set by [RFC 7519][6] and ensure that there is a negligible probability that the same value will be used by more than one WIT-SVID within the scope of the trust domain.

Typically, the `jti` will be an opaque randomly generated value of sufficient entropy as to make the chance of collision negligible.

Primarily, this claim enables distinguishing one or more WIT-SVIDs that contain the same SPIFFE ID for the purposes of auditing. For example, if a validator of a WIT-SVID records the JTI within an audit log event, this audit log event can be correlated with the one emitted by the issuer which allows the lineage of the credential to be ascertained.

Due to the nature of how this claim uniquely identifies the WIT-SVID, it could be leveraged for revocation of an individual WIT-SVID. There are no mechanisms defined within SPIFFE for the propagation of WIT-SVID revocations and this is considered out of the scope of the specification.

> Implementations MAY issue a WIT-SVID with the same `jti` to two different instances of the workload on the same node. As such, the `jti` SHOULD NOT be used for replay protection.

Reviewer 3: `issue a WIT-SVID with the same jti` sounds like it's signing claims with the same `jti` twice, but we don't want to allow that. Maybe "release" or "return" would be more fitting here?

Reviewer: I suggested "return" elsewhere.

Author: 444f8d0

The `iat` claim MAY be present. This claim MUST NOT be used for limiting the earliest validity of a WIT-SVID, this is the purpose of the `nbf` claim.

This claim exists to assist with auditing and diagnostics.

### 3.7. Issuer - `iss`

The issuer of this WIT-SVID. The meaning of this claim is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `iss` claim MAY be present. When present, it SHOULD NOT be a value compatible with OpenID Connect Discovery - this is to prevent the validation and acceptance of the WIT-SVID as an OIDC ID Token without validation of a proof of possession.

Within SPIFFE, there already exists mechanisms for the distribution of trust bundles and the trust domain part of the `sub` broadly identifies the issuer. In many cases, this makes the `iss` claim redundant. The specification has intentionally been left relaxed for the `iss` claim to support the usage of alternative trust distribution models and developments to the specification in future.

### 3.8. Additional Claims

It is permitted for an implementation to include additional claims not specified in this document or the upstream document.

> When encountering additional claims that it does not recognize, a validator should ignore them.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to prohibit `aud` here?

Reviewer: Might be a good idea considering it now belongs in the PoP.

Author: I'm going to leave this as something we will address in a follow-up PR as I think this may be worthy of further discussion - although I do find myself agreeing.

[WIT-SVID Draft: Prohibit aud claim in WIT](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/issues/370)

## 4. Token Issuance and Validation

This section describes the manner in which a WIT-SVID may be issued and validated.

The process of signing a WIT-SVID does not differ significantly from the well-established method for signing a JWT-SVID or a JWT. Implementors should follow the canonical process set out by [RFC7519][6]. However, they should bear in mind the following specific requirements for WIT-SVIDs:

- The issuer MUST use one of the permitted algorithms for signing the WIT-SVID JWT as per [2.3. Algorithm - `alg`](#23-algorithm---alg).
- The issuer MUST set the `alg`, `typ` and `kid` header parameters.
- The issuer MUST set the `sub`, `exp` and `cnf` claims.
- The issuer MUST set the `cnf.jwk.alg` claim to one of the permitted algorithms as per [3.2 Confirmation - `cnf`](#32-confirmation---cnf)

> - The issuer SHOULD set the `jti`, `nbf` and `iat` claims.

Reviewer: This must be relaxed per the new wording (just `MAY`).

Author: cd6766a

> The issuer MAY issue the same WIT-SVID, or WIT-SVIDs with the same key within the `cnf`, to instances of the same workload running on the same host. This may be useful in cases where an implementor wishes to have a local agent of the issuer cache WIT-SVIDs for workloads for performance or reliability reasons. Implementors should consider how this impacts the relationship between a WIT-SVID and a specific instance of a workload for the purposes of auditing or revocation.

Reviewer 3: Isn't this already somewhat covered with `jti`? Are there any other benefits apart from releasing a previously issued WIT-SVID + private key from the cache?

> The issuer MAY issue the same WIT-SVID, or WIT-SVIDs with the same key within the `cnf`, to instances of the same workload running on the same host. This may be useful in cases where an implementor wishes to have a local agent of the issuer cache WIT-SVIDs for workloads for performance or reliability reasons. Implementors should consider how this impacts the relationship between a WIT-SVID and a specific instance of a workload for the purposes of auditing or revocation.

Reviewer: s/issue/return

Author: cd6766a

> The process of validating a WIT-SVID is similar to the well-established process for validating a JWT-SVID or a JWT more generally. Implementors should follow the canonical process set out by [RFC7519][6]. However, they should bear in mind the following specific requirements for WIT-SVIDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of validating a WIT-SVID is similar to the well-established process for validating a JWT-SVID or a JWT more generally but bears a *significant difference* reiterated below. Implementors should follow the canonical process set out by [RFC7519][6]. However, they should bear in mind the following specific requirements for WIT-SVIDs:
```

> - The validator MUST NOT accept the WIT-SVID without an appropriate proof of possession of the key-pair contained within the `cnf`.

Reviewer: Could use referencing the future section.

## 5. Token Presentation

This section describes the manner in which a WIT-SVID may be presented from one workload to another for the purposes of authentication.

> The WIT-SVID MUST always be presented by the workload with proof of possession of the key-pair contained within the `cnf`. In other words, the WIT-SVID MUST NOT be presented as a bearer token and therefore MUST NOT be presented using the HTTP `Authorization` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WIT-SVID MUST always be presented by the workload with proof of possession of the key-pair contained within the `cnf`. In other words, the WIT-SVID MUST NOT be presented as a bearer token. Additionally, WIT-SVID MUST NOT be presented using the HTTP `Authorization` header to avoid potential confusion.
```

Reworded as it does not follow exactly. And it might be good to have two "MUST NOT" sentences in this place.

Author: 7ec307d

> WIMSE defines protocols for presentation of the WIT and accompanying proof of possession. It is recommended that an implementor use one of these defined protocols. The use of other protocols is permitted if they meet the requirements set out above. At the time of writing, there are two protocols specified by WIMSE for WIT:

Reviewer: What are the "requirements set out above"? I don't think we should permit beyond the examples without a good reason (and analysis of security).

Author: Let's discuss this further in a follow up since I think this is worth a little more thought

Author: https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/issues/371

- [WIMSE Workload Proof Token][4]
- [WIMSE Workload-To-Workload Authentication with HTTP Signatures][5]

## 6. Representation in the SPIFFE Bundle

This section describes how the WIT-SVID signing keys are published to and consumed from a SPIFFE bundle. Please see the [SPIFFE Trust Domain and Bundle](SPIFFE_Trust_Domain_and_Bundle.md) specification for more information about SPIFFE bundles.

### 6.1 Publishing SPIFFE Bundle Elements

WIT-SVID signing keys for a given trust domain are represented in the SPIFFE bundle as [RFC 7517][3]-compliant JWK entries, one entry per signing key.

The `use` parameter of the JWK entry MUST be set to `wit-svid`.

> The `kid` parameter of each JWK entry must be set. The value of the `kid` parameter MUST be unique within the scope of the SPIFFE bundle. No other JWK, whether for JWT-SVID or WIT-SVID, may have use the same value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kid` parameter of each JWK entry must be set. The value of the `kid` parameter MUST be unique within the scope of the SPIFFE bundle. No other JWK, whether for JWT-SVID or WIT-SVID, may have the same value.
```

Author: d4f12b9

### 6.2 Consuming SPIFFE Bundle Elements

> SPIFFE bundles may contain JWK entries for many different SVID types. Implementations MUST extract the WIT-SVID specification keys before using them for validation purposes. Entries representing WIT-SVID signing keys can be identified by the value of their `use` parameter, which must be `wit-svid`. If there are no entries with the `wit-svid` use parameter, then the trust domain that the bundle represents does not support WIT-SVID.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SPIFFE bundles may contain JWK entries for many different SVID types. Implementations MUST extract the WIT-SVID specification keys before using them for validation purposes. Entries representing WIT-SVID signing keys can be identified by the value of their `use` parameter, which MUST be `wit-svid`. If there are no entries with the `wit-svid` use parameter, then the trust domain that the bundle represents does not support WIT-SVID.
```

Author: e5d6ea0

## 7. Security Considerations

### 7.1 Mandatory Proof of Possession

The WIT-SVID MUST NOT be used as a bearer token and MUST be presented with a proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim.

Similarly, the WIT-SVID MUST NOT be accepted without appropriate proof of possession of the key-pair within the `cnf` claim. See [5. Token Presentation](#5-token-presentation) for information on appropriate protocols for the presentation and acceptance of the WIT-SVID for authentication.

> Implementors should take care to ensure that the WIT-SVID will not be accepted by validators that may be expecting a JWT-SVID or JWT (e.g. OIDC Workload Identity Federation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementors should take care to ensure that the WIT-SVID will not be accepted by validators that may be expecting a JWT-SVID or JWT (e.g. OIDC Workload Identity Federation). For this reason, we disallow the use of `WIT-SVID` in the HTTP `Authorization` header.
```

Author: 2713343

### 7.2 Proof of Possession and Mitigation of Tampering and Replay

When choosing a proof of possession mechanism, consider how the characteristics of the mechanism will mitigate the impact of an attacker intercepting the WIT-SVID, proof of possession and potentially the request itself. There are broadly two scenarios to consider:

- Tampering: When the attacker intercepts and modifies a legitimate request to be malicious.

> - Replay: When the attacker intercepts the request and uses the WIT-SVID and PoP and uses these to make their own request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replay: When the attacker intercepts the request and uses the WIT-SVID and PoP to make their own request.
```

Author: 6f79dcc

A key characteristic to consider is how tightly scoped the proof of possession is, that is, how specific it is to the request being made by the sender.

A tightly scoped proof of possession limits the extent to which an attacker can tamper with the intentions of the request and limits the actions an attacker can take when replaying. A loosely scoped proof of possession (e.g. one that is only scoped to the intended recipient) would allow an attacker to perform a wide range of actions. A good proof of possession would be scoped to a specific action with a specific set of parameters.

The scope of a proof of possession must be understood and enforced by the recipient to be of any value. If the sender includes a trait of the request within a proof of possesion but the recipient does not validate this against the received request, then it has served no purpose.

> Additionally, the lifespan of a Proof of Possession MUST be limited and SHOULD be limited to a shortest period necessary to serve its intended purpose. This reduces the window in which they can be replayed by an attacker. In ideal circumstances, the lifespan could feasibly be set to a small number of seconds, however the lower bound of this value may be constrained by factors such as clock skew and network latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the lifespan of a Proof of Possession MUST be limited and SHOULD be limited to the shortest period necessary to serve its intended purpose. This reduces the window in which the PoP can be replayed by an attacker. In ideal circumstances, the lifespan could feasibly be set to a small number of seconds, however the lower bound of this value may be constrained by factors such as clock skew and network latency.
```

Author: 8bf7fd4

> Recipients MAY choose to prevent replay by only permitting a distinct proof of possession to be used at most once. This may be implemented by recording some unique identifier of the proof of possesion (e.g. in the case of the WIMSE WPT, the `jti` claim). This requires a degree of coordination between the sender and the recipient as the sender must be aware that it can only use a proof of possession once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recipients MAY choose to prevent replay by only permitting a distinct proof of possession to be used at most once. This may be implemented by recording some unique identifier of the proof of possesion (e.g. in the case of the WIMSE WPT, the `jti` claim of the WPT). This requires a degree of coordination between the sender and the recipient as the sender must be aware that it can only use a proof of possession once. Additionally, it adds complexity on receiver's side with coordination among multiple replicas and the need to cache the PoP identifiers until their expiry plus leeway.
```

Author: 3de38dc

`iat`             | ~        | ~
`nbf`             | ~        | ~
`iss`             | ~*       | ~
Additional claims | ~        | ~

Notes:

- `sub` claim: The WIT-SVID requires that this must be a SPIFFE ID. The WIMSE WIT requires that this be a WIMSE Workload Identifier. A SPIFFE ID is a WIMSE Workload Identifier.
- `cnf.jwk.alg`: The WIT-SVID requires the `cnf.jwk.alg` claim to be a value specified within this document. The WIMSE WIT accepts any algorithm registered in the IANA JOSE registry with the exception of `none`.
- `iss`: Both the WIT-SVID and WIMSE WIT allow the optional inclusion of the `iss` claim. The WIT-SVID requires that if this is included, that this is not a value compatible with OpenID Connect Discovery.

## Appendix C. Comparing the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID

This appendix explores the differences between the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID from a structural and presentational point of view. For a more in-depth exploration of the types of SVIDs and guidance on selecting between them, see the [Best Practices: SVID Type Comparison document][8].

Whilst at first glance the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID may look quite similar, there are a number of key differences.

> Unique to the WIT-SVID is the inclusion of a public key belonging to the workload. When authenticating with the WIT-SVID it is required for the workload to also perform a proof of possession using the private key. This differs from JWT-SVIDs which are bearer tokens - presentation of the JWT-SVID alone is enough to authenticate using it. This creates a difference in how they must be handled, with a JWT-SVID being more susceptible to replay by a bad actor who has intercepted it.

Reviewer 3: nit: it also allows servers to impersonate clients

Author: 9caa122

> Unique to the WIT-SVID is the inclusion of a public key belonging to the workload. When authenticating with the WIT-SVID it is required for the workload to also perform a proof of possession using the private key. This differs from JWT-SVIDs which are bearer tokens - presentation of the JWT-SVID alone is enough to authenticate using it. This creates a difference in how they must be handled, with a JWT-SVID being more susceptible to replay by a bad actor who has intercepted it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unique to the WIT-SVID is the inclusion of a public key belonging to the workload. When authenticating with the WIT-SVID it is required for the workload to also perform a proof of possession using the private key. This differs from JWT-SVIDs which are bearer tokens - presentation of the JWT-SVID alone is enough to authenticate using it. This creates a difference in how they must be handled, with a JWT-SVID being more susceptible to replay by a bad actor who has intercepted it. On the other hand, intercepting solely the WIT-SVID does not grant the attacker any power if they also don't have the workload's private key (that is, as long as the proof of possession mechanism is applied properly as discussed in this and referenced documents).
```

> Because of their bearer nature, it is strongly recommended that JWT-SVIDs have an extremely short lifespan (e.g. seconds to a few minutes) in order to mitigate potential re-use. Since the proof of possession mechanism of WIT-SVIDs provides some mitigation against these kinds of attacks, a lifespan as short as that typically seen for JWT-SVIDs is not necessary and the lifespan of WIT-SVIDs may be more similar to that of X509-SVIDs.

Reviewer: We need to also discuss the `aud` here as it is another mechanism of protection in case of JWT- but not WIT-SVID.

Notably, the WIT-SVID makes the `kid` header parameter mandatory whereas the JWT-SVID does not. This change was intended to reflect reality: a significant number of JWT-SVID validation implementations (e.g `go-spiffe`, SPIRE) within the SPIFFE ecosystem will reject a spec-compliant JWT-SVID without the `kid` parameter, making this a de-facto requirement. A similar situation would be likely to occur if the `kid` header parameter was optional for the WIT-SVID. Therefore, making this mandatory from the outset increases the chances of the implementations and the specification being in coherence in regards to the `kid` header parameter.

## Appendix D. Comparing the X509-SVID and WIT-SVID

This appendix explores the differences between the X509-SVID and WIT-SVID from a structural and presentational point of view. For a more in-depth exploration of the types of SVIDs and guidance on selecting between them, see the [Best Practices: SVID Type Comparison document][8].

Whilst at first glance the X509-SVID and WIT-SVID may be quite visually distinct, they share a number of common traits:

> - Both contain a public key belonging to the workload and when authenticating using the SVID, the workload must demonstrate possession using the corresponding private key. The possession of the X509-SVID or the WIT-SVID alone is not enough to authenticate using it and because of this, they do not need to be treated as "sensitive" values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Both contain a public key belonging to the workload and when authenticating using the SVID, the workload must demonstrate possession using the corresponding private key. The possession of the X509-SVID or the WIT-SVID alone is not enough to authenticate using it and because of this, they do not need to be treated as "sensitive" values. The proof of possession of the private key is used with both, albeit implemented at different layers (TLS vs application).
```

Author: fbbef74

> - Both are likely to have lifespans of comparable lengths (e.g minutes to hours).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Both are likely to have lifespans of comparable lengths (e.g. minutes to hours).
```

Author: 1f40258

> - Both are cryptographically signed by an issuer, and, a validator uses this signature to ensure that it is a legitimate credential and has not been tampered with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Both are cryptographically signed by an issuer and a validator uses this signature to ensure that it is a legitimate credential and has not been tampered with.
```

Author: fbbef74

They do however differ in a number of key ways:

- X509-SVIDs are X.509 certificates - it is an extremely mature standard and good support for authentication based on them (e.g TLS) is available in most languages. WITs are much less mature and language support is likely to be initially limited.
- X509-SVIDs are typically presented and mutually authenticated at the network layer using TLS. They authenticate a channel. A WIT-SVID would typically be sent along with a single request on the application layer. They authenticate a single invocation.
- X509-SVIDs are serialized in ASN.1, whereas WIT-SVIDs are JWTs and are serialized using JSON. JSON is often considered easier to work with and understand.

> It's entirely feasible that in some environments, both may even be used within the same connection (e.g the client presents a WIT-SVID and the server presents an X509-SVID.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's entirely feasible that, in some environments, both may even be used within the same connection (e.g the client presents a WIT-SVID and the server presents an X509-SVID.)
```

Author: fbbef74

# The WIT SPIFFE Verifiable Identity Document

> [!WARNING]  

> > This version of the document belongs to an experimental branch of the SPIFFE standards that explores integration with the WIMSE standards. Contents of this document are subject to breaking change and should not be considered stable.

Reviewer: Simply "this document"; no version is present elsewhere.

Author: 55acaf5

>

> > The current stable version of this document can be found at https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Workload_Endpoint.md

Reviewer: Not the right document.

This one, in fact, does not exist there at all.

Author: 55acaf5

## Status of this Memo

This document specifies an identity document standard for the internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for improvements. Distribution of this document is unlimited.

> ## Table of Contents

Reviewer: I'm assuming some tooling is generating and validating this ToC (i.e., me too lazy to click and compare).

Author: I don't think we have standardised tooling for this at the moment - we probably should have 😂

  - [3.7. Issuer - `iss`](#37-issuer---iss)
  - [3.8. Additional Claims](#38-additional-claims)
- [4. Token Issuance and Validation](#4-token-issuance-and-validation)
- [5. Token Presentation](#5-token-presentation)
- [6. Representation in the SPIFFE Bundle](#6-representation-in-the-spiffe-bundle)
  - [6.1 Publishing SPIFFE Bundle Elements](#61-publishing-spiffe-bundle-elements)
  - [6.2 Consuming SPIFFE Bundle Elements](#62-consuming-spiffe-bundle-elements)
- [7. Security Considerations](#7-security-considerations)
  - [7.1 Mandatory Proof of Possession](#71-mandatory-proof-of-possession)
  - [7.2 Proof of Possession and Mitigation of Tampering and Replay](#72-proof-of-possession-and-mitigation-of-tampering-and-replay)
  - [7.3 Transport Security](#73-transport-security)
- [Appendix A. Example WIT-SVID](#appendix-a-example-wit-svid)
- [Appendix B. Comparing WIMSE WIT with SPIFFE WIT-SVID](#appendix-b-comparing-wimse-wit-with-spiffe-wit-svid)
- [Appendix C. Comparing the JWT-SVID and WIT-SVID](#appendix-c-comparing-the-jwt-svid-and-wit-svid)
- [Appendix D. Comparing the X509-SVID and WIT-SVID](#appendix-d-comparing-the-x509-svid-and-wit-svid)

## 1. Introduction

> The Workload Identity Token (WIT) is a token format specified by the IETF WIMSE working group in the [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document. The WIT binds a public key to the identity of a workload.

Reviewer: I don't see mentioning anywhere that these tokens typically go at Layer 7. We could have some sentence here about it (similar to what JWT-SVID already has).

---

Additionally, it would help to expand on the second sentence on the importance of that binding - that is is possible to prove the possession using a specialized algorithm (i.e., better answering the question "why even do anything with WITs").

The WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of this token format for use in SPIFFE contexts. This document does not redefine key elements specified within the upstream [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1] document and as such the reader should be familiar with this document and its contents before implementing WIT-SVID.

> As the WIT-SVID is a sub-profiling of the WIMSE WIT, all WIT-SVIDs are WIMSE WITs and implementations designed to consume WIMSE WITs will be compatible with WIT-SVIDs. Conversely, not all WITs are WIT-SVIDs and implementations designed specifically for WIT-SVIDs may not function with WITs or other profiles of WITs.

Reviewer: I think this is overly general of a statement. What would make them break? What are the repercussions? (i.e., does this break interoperability with other WIT profile? If so, this would be bad as one of the goals of WIT is the promise of interoperability - at least according to my understanding)

Reviewer 3: It's a tough one as we're the first. The one at hand is that if a WIT-SVID implementation mandates the spiffe:// URI scheme it won't accept "wimse://...."

Reviewer: I agree. I am more suggesting we try to reword this. Perhaps saying explicitly that there are currently no other implementations to be interoperable with? (And to really know what we might actually hit beyond the identifier discrepancy)

I mean, the question is also about what it means to be a WIT. Is WIT really interoperable? Or does it simply allow for easier grokking of the possible plethora of profiles that could be made to live in their own bubbles?

Author: What I was mostly trying to emphasize here was the nature of the sub-profiling relationship. Software/libraries designed to function with the WIMSE WIT should function correctly with SPIFFE WIT-SVIDS - however - we cannot make a guarantee that all future sub-profiling of the WIMSE WIT will be compatible with the SPIFFE WIT-SVID. 

I'd be happy to continue this discussion since I think the introduction has a few things to be added/improved - could you create a GitHub issue that captures the essence of the problem here? I tried to summarise it but I didn't want to "miscapture" what you have said here.

WIT-SVIDs are [JSON Web Tokens (JWT)][6] encoded using [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] compact serialization.

### 2. JOSE Header

This section describes the JOSE header parameters that are defined for the WIT-SVID.

The WIT-SVID specification does not introduce any JOSE header parameters beyond those defined by the upstream document for the WIT. However, it does set additional restrictions and provide SPIFFE-specific guidance on some parameters.

### 2.1. Key ID - `kid`

Unique identifier of the key-pair used by the issuer to sign the WIT-SVID. The `kid` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

> For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present. This differs from the upstream WIT itself and the JWT-SVID where this parameter is optional.

Reviewer: Giving reasoning is helpful. I see it present in appendix. Could use hinting at it here (e.g., "look here for reasoning").

Author: 76a07b3

The format of the value of this parameter is unspecified and it MUST be treated by verifiers as a case-sensitive string.

The issuer MUST ensure that the value set within the `kid` parameter is unique to each issuing key-pair.

This parameter allows a validator to select the correct public key from a trust bundle for validating the signature of a WIT-SVID without enumerating all keys.

### 2.2. Type - `typ`

The `typ` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

> For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and MUST be set to `wit+jwt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any WIT, including WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and MUST be set to `wit+jwt`.
```

Reviewer: This is to emphasize it being a non-difference from WIT.

### 2.3. Algorithm - `alg`

Identifies the cryptographic algorithm used to sign the WIT-SVID. The `alg` header parameter is defined by the [JSON Web Signature (JWS)][2] document.

For a WIT-SVID, this parameter MUST be present and set to one of the following supported values:

`alg` Param Value | Digital Signature Algorithm
------------------|-----------------------------
RS256 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-256
RS384 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-384
RS512 | RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 using SHA-512
ES256 | ECDSA using P-256 and SHA-256
ES384 | ECDSA using P-384 and SHA-384
ES512 | ECDSA using P-521 and SHA-512
PS256 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-256 and MGF1 with SHA-256
PS384 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-384 and MGF1 with SHA-384

> PS512 | RSASSA-PSS using SHA-512 and MGF1 with SHA-512

Reviewer 2: This point is not worth delaying merging this in to the experimental branch, but I think we will need to give control over the algorithm to the workload and possible also to the signing key type.

With the agent having control over the signing algorithm I think we'd effectively require workloads to be able to work with all of these algorithms. Otherwise, they may very well work in one deployment but not in another. I think the point of having the standard is to be able to have these workloads work with different implementations.

Not having the algorithm as part of the API makes it hard to express that a workload may require a specific algorithm to talk with another workload or due to regulatory reasons. The workload is in the best place to decide what kind of signing algorithm it needs. This does also mean that we would need to give control over the signing key type since, as far as I can tell, the RSA ones work with any signing key size so the agent can't tell which to use.

Author: 👍  Definitely worth discussing this in SIG-Spec I think - this is a good point. It's interesting since it reminds me of discussions we had previously around the workload also being able to provide it's own public key.

Reviewer 3: Are we talking about WIT-SVID alg or the alg of the proof key? It sounds to me it's the latter but the comment is on the WIT-SVID one.

Reviewer 3: Thinking more about it: Allowing workloads to specify the algorithm will result in a similar problem like the JWT-SVID where the cache cannot be populated beforehand because we don't know the algorithm (audience in JWT-SVID case).

Reviewer 2: > Are we talking about WIT-SVID alg or the alg of the proof key? It sounds to me it's the latter but the comment is on the WIT-SVID one.

Yes, sorry about that, hopefully that wasn't too confusing for the discussion here.

> Thinking more about it: Allowing workloads to specify the algorithm will result in a similar problem like the JWT-SVID where the cache cannot be populated beforehand because we don't know the algorithm (audience in JWT-SVID case).

Yes, somewhat. It could be cached based on some default parameters more reasonably than what you can do with JWT-SVIDs. This would still allow a workload to request another signing algorithm. It also means that while a workload is subscribed to the stream we know what algorithms it needs and we can do pro-active refreshes of the SVID.

Author: I've created https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/issues/373 to track this discussion.

Validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs with an unsupported `alg` parameter value.

### 2.4. Additional Header Parameters

Implementations SHOULD NOT provide additional header parameters not specified by this document.

> Validators should ignore unknown header parameters except where those header parameters are specified by the `crit` header parameter as per [RFC7515][2].

Reviewer: Should not "should" be "SHOULD"?

Also, this is the only place where we refer to RFC7515 per number and not the name (JWS).

Author: 55a35a1

### 3. Claims

This section describes the claims that are defined for the WIT-SVID.

The WIT-SVID specification does not introduce any claims beyond those defined by the upstream document for the WIT. However, it does set additional restrictions and provide SPIFFE-specific guidance on some claims.

### 3.1. Subject - `sub`

The identity of the workload holding the WIT-SVID.

The `sub` claim MUST be present and MUST be set to the SPIFFE ID of the workload to which it is issued.

This is the primary claim against which workload identity is asserted.

For example: `spiffe://example.org/service`.

### 3.2. Confirmation - `cnf`

The public key of the workload. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7800][7] and [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1].

> The `cnf` claim MUST be present and validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs without this claim. The structure of this claim MUST be as described by [RFC7800][7] and [WIMSE Workload Credentials][1].

Reviewer: Repeated sentence from the previous paragraph.

### 3.3. JWT ID - `jti`

A unique identifier for this WIT-SVID. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `jti` claim MAY be present. If present, the issuer MUST abide by the requirements set by [RFC 7519][6] and ensure that there is a negligible probability that the same value will be used by more than one WIT-SVID within the scope of the trust domain.

Typically, the `jti` will be an opaque randomly generated value of sufficient entropy as to make the chance of collision negligible.

Primarily, this claim enables distinguishing one or more WIT-SVIDs that contain the same SPIFFE ID for the purposes of auditing. For example, if a validator of a WIT-SVID records the JTI within an audit log event, this audit log event can be correlated with the one emitted by the issuer which allows the lineage of the credential to be ascertained.

Due to the nature of how this claim uniquely identifies the WIT-SVID, it could be leveraged for revocation of an individual WIT-SVID. There are no mechanisms defined within SPIFFE for the propagation of WIT-SVID revocations and this is considered out of the scope of the specification.

> Implementations MAY issue a WIT-SVID with the same `jti` to two different instances of the workload on the same node. As such, the `jti` SHOULD NOT be used for replay protection.

Reviewer: IMHO this "MAY" should be "may". We are not really allowing that, just discussing it.

This also slightly conflicts with the paragraph at L143.

Reviewer: I woke up today and felt adding this: IMHO also `SHOULD NOT` is too weak here. The `jti` simply `MUST NOT` be used for this purposes. All the replay protection `MUST` go into the PoP mechanism.

Reviewer 3: He's having a point there.

Author: Agreed - makes sense to be more explicit about this.

Author: 444f8d0

### 3.5. Not Before - `nbf`

The timestamp at which this WIT-SVID became valid. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `nbf` claim SHOULD be present and validators MUST reject WIT-SVIDs when the time indicated by `nbf` is in the future.

Notably, this value may be set to a time shortly in the past relative to the time of issuance, this permits a certain degree of clock skew between validator and issuer.

Validators MAY use the difference between the `nbf` and `exp` to determine the lifespan of the WIT-SVIDs and MAY reject WIT-SVIDs where the lifespan exceeds an administratively configured lifespan policy.

### 3.6. Issued At - `iat`

The timestamp at which this WIT-SVID was issued. The meaning of this claim and the structure of its value is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `iat` claim SHOULD be present. This claim MUST NOT be used for limiting the earliest validity of a WIT-SVID, this is the purpose of the `nbf` claim.

This claim exists to assist with auditing and diagnostics.

> 

Reviewer: I am not sure about the value of including and discussing `nbf` and `iat` (and even more of "`SHOULD`ing" its inclusion) at the level of WIT-SVID, especially since they have not received much treatment - neither in JWT-SVID nor in WIT. Notably, we only even included and discussed `jti` because it was discussed in the RFC-to-be for WIT.

(Apologies if this has been discussed on this GH PR but GH is terrible at allowing to follow multi-threaded discussions in the PRs)

Author: I did have this discussion with @sorindumitru in another thread (which I now cannot find).

I am going to downgrade these to MAY as opposed to SHOULD - however - I think it is still important to include them within the document since we are requiring validators to handle them in a specific way.

Author: 57858cd

### 3.7. Issuer - `iss`

The issuer of this WIT-SVID. The meaning of this claim is defined by [RFC7519][6].

The `iss` claim MAY be present. When present, it SHOULD NOT be a value compatible with OpenID Connect Discovery - this is to prevent the validation and acceptance of the WIT-SVID as an OIDC ID Token without validation of a proof of possession.

Within SPIFFE, there already exists mechanisms for the distribution of trust bundles and the trust domain part of the `sub` broadly identifies the issuer. In many cases, this makes the `iss` claim redundant. The specification has intentionally been left relaxed for the `iss` claim to support the usage of alternative trust distribution models and developments to the specification in future.

### 3.8. Additional Claims

It is permitted for an implementation to include additional claims not specified in this document or the upstream document.

> When encountering additional claims that it does not recognize, a validator should ignore them.

Reviewer: IMHO `SHOULD`

Author: 55a35a1
